# Project Structure Specification
This document describes the structure of projects and special files and directories for Klar implementations.

## Project Directories/Root Folders

For full Klar projects with a glas.pack, these folders inside the same folder as glas.pack should be detected. Any other folder is ignored by the Klar toolchain. Modules are found in these folders.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

|    Name     | Contains                                                             |         Public         | Downloaded |
| :---------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------: | :--------: |
|    `cmd`    | Installable and runnable commands. Even if your project is private, it is recommended to place your commands in this folder. |          Yes           |    Yes     |
|   `dist`    | Build output. This should be included in `.gitignore`.               |           No           |     No     |
|   `docs`    | Markdown files that can be included in package documentation.        |           No           |    Yes     |
| `external`  | Files written in other languages for linking in `@external`. Available to all packages. | No  |    Yes     |
| `generated` | Generated files, usually Klar scripts or external scripts. Files here should not be manually edited. |           No           |    Yes     |
|    `pkg`    | Packages in a single project/monorepo                                | Yes | Installed individually |            |
|  `recipes`  | Klar recipes (coming soon). Individual Klar scripts are placed here. |           No           |     No     |
|  `scripts`  | Individual Klar scripts not inside modules. Used for development.    |           No           |     No     |
|  `shared`   | Modules available to all **packages** in a project, but not outside. |           No           |    Yes     |
|    `src`    | Entry files for a package. Most files and modules should be here.    |          Yes           |    Yes     |
|   `.klar`   | Project-specific folder for project data, cache, and dependencies as an alternative to installing them globally on the machine. This should be included in `.gitignore`. |           No           |     No     |

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Projectless Scripts

Klar scripts placed outside a project with a glas.pack file are allowed.

-   Are discrete modules, even with files in the same folder
-   Must be run by name
-   Cannot install or import modules outside the standard library

## Manifest/Configuration Files

### `glas.pack`

The `glas.pack` defines a project or package. It is only allowed in the project root and/or a package. If it is found in both, the `glas.lock` in the package will merge with, but override, the `glas.pack` in the project.

### `klar.build`

`klar.build` is Klar's build configuration file. It is akin to `vite.config.js` or `webpack.config.js`. The `klar.build` file defines default build options when compiling a project, package, or module. It is allowed in the project root, the `pkg` directory, any package root, or any module inside. When compiling, the closest `klar.build` file to the input is used.

### `glas.lock`

The lockfile for the Glas package manager. The `glas.lock` file stores the list of packages and versions to install when installing dependencies for a project. A `glas.lock` file must always be paired with a `glas.pack` file.

### `klardoc.json`

Prebuilt documentation for a project, containing the index of a package's exports and all documentation and type definitions. The `klardoc.json` file is stored only in the project root. This file is autogenerated and should not be manually edited.

## Modules

Modules are defined by directories. Creating a directory inside a directory creates a submodule. Modules can be imported into Klar scripts by their path. Klar import paths are separated by dot characters (`.`)

### Module Identifiers

The module identifier is the name of the directory. A module identifier:

-   can contain any Unicode letter or digit or underscores (`_`)
-   cannot be a keyword (such as `import, func,` or `go`) or a modifier (`public, opaque`, etc.)
-   cannot be a special project directory (such as `pkg`)
-   cannot begin with a digit
-   cannot be only a single underscore (`_`)

Most valid Klar identifiers are valid module identifiers. If an identifier is not a valid Klar identifier, it is not a valid module identifier.

The top-level module may not be named `klar`.

**Allowed:** `a`, `b6`, `core`, `HOLA`, `cafĂ©`
**Not allowed:** `import`, `go`, `public`, `cmd`, `67`, `3dlib`, `_`

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Validation of directory names is not required. It is recommended that users avoid module names that are OS-reserved, such as `con` on Windows.

### Path Limits

No more than four (4) folders/parts in a module. This starts from the folder inside `src`.  
**Allowed:** `a.b.c.d` (4 parts)  
**Not allowed:** `a.b.c.d.e` (5 parts)

### Installing Modules

Files included in a downloaded module: `glas.pack`, `glas.lock`, `klardoc.json`

## Assets

**Scripts:** .klar, .js, .ts, .wasm, .php  
**Stylesheets:** .css, .scss, .sass, .less
**Media:** .png, .jpeg, .jpg, .svg, .webp, .gif, .mp4, .mp3, .wav, .webm, .tiff  
**Markup:** .xml, .json, .html, .klon, .txt, .csv, .tsv  
**Fonts:** .ttf, .otf, .woff, .woff2
